As a huge fan of the original, I'm going to judge this as a Ghostbusters film (which is only fair as the studio is trading off the franchise), rather than a generic Hollywood Summer Blockbuster and well... I'm afraid that as a Ghostbusters movie, it stinks. It really stinks. 

I've read quite a lot of official reviews that say it's better than GB2, in what universe I ask you? GB2 had serious structural flaws compared to the first, there's no doubt, but its jokes and set pieces are still some of the most iconic of the franchise. Seeing as how no one who has made this claim has in any way tried to back it up, let me compare the two right here and now. 

First the baddies. Vigo vs Rowan. No contest, Vigo. Rowan is a terrible baddie, he'll be forgotten a few months after the Blu-Ray release, whereas Vigo is iconic and terrifying. So let's compare the good guys. GB2 relies on the magnificent chemistry between Murray, Aykroyd, Ramis and Hudson to drive it along and whatever the structural flaws, the chemistry is as strong as ever. Wiig, McCarthy, McKinnon and Jones do not share any chemistry, it's actually painful to see them on screen together. Even as individuals they fall far short of the original cast. If we take Wiig as an analogue to Murray, there's no contest; Murray gains a flawless victory. People are still quoting Venkman lines from GB2, "bummer", no one will be quoting Erin Gilbert in (nearly) 30 years time. The same is true for the rest of the cast head- to-head. To save time I'll just highlight the example of McKinnon, who I love on SNL, but couldn't bear in this movie. She's clearly the Egon character, but she phones it in, playing a generic 'kook' and going so over the top that it basically ruins half of the scenes that she's in. Again, McKinnon, like Wiig, has no funny or memorable lines such as 'lets see what happens when we take away the puppy' and her humour is weird for the sake of it, rather than the deadpan brilliance of the late Harold Ramis. The supporting characters are just regurgitated, worse versions of people from the originals, there isn't anyone who comes close to the creepy-comedy brilliance of Peter MacNichol's Janosz, one of the greatest, most iconic supporting characters in any comedy! 

So let's look at the structure and set pieces. If GB2 was structurally flawed, GB2016 "should be condemned", (see what I did there?) I don't want to spoiler the movie, so I'll keep to scenes and plot devices already revealed by the trailers. Firstly, the rock concert scene falls completely flat compared to the courthouse scene in GB2. The ghosts released by Rowan serve little purpose, look cheap and lack the comedy mischief of the ghosts in the original. Rowan's machine is a lazy cop-out and is in no way comparable to the absolutely terrifying and completely awesome river of slime flowing through the spooky abandoned subway. GB2 was all about creating some legitimate scares (Titanic docking!) and a feelgood factor which it did through some iconic set pieces. There is no feelgood factor to this new movie. It feels cheap in a nasty way and is surprisingly cynical for something that I've read is supposed to be aspirational in some way. 

I could go all day comparing the two but let's just say that GB2016 in no way measures up side by side to GB2. I suspect that the reason some reviewers are making that claim is to try and salvage something from this God-awful mess, so people will say 'hey, at least it's not the worst Ghostbusters movie.' It must be shilling because when you put all the elements of the two movies side-by-side, it's clear that despite its flaws, GB2 is simply better in every way than this lazy reboot. But here's the thing, my kid enjoyed it. He didn't like it as much as Ghostbusters, or even Ghostbusters 2, but he thought it was neat regardless. I think kids will like this film because it's flashy and the jokes are crude and obvious; adults who loved the subtle, dry wit of the original will probably be turned off by the listless, rehashed, gross-out humour and half-hearted performances. 

I have one more story to share that I think any parent might want to know before taking their child to see this film. When we came out of the cinema, my kid was in a funny mood that I've never seen him in before, half-hyped and half-pensive. I asked him if he was feeling alright and he said 'yeah', then there was this long pause and I could see him struggling with something. Eventually he turned to me and said, 'dad, when I grow up I want to be a lady'. I was pretty taken aback but I tried not to show it, instead I just said to him 'well you know you can be whatever you want to be sport; why do you want to be a lady, is it to be like the new Ghostbusters?'. And he just looked at me with eyes that seemed older than his years and said, 'no dad, it's because this film made me realise all guys are either stupid or evil, so it's better just to be a lady I guess..