This turns out to be just a really bad movie and an insult to the Ghostbusters franchise. After all the years of Sony saying no to making a new Ghostbusters movie and when they finally decide to this is the result. The actors in this movie just don't create the sort of chemistry and flow that made the original great. That being said it is also not their fault as they are not bad themselves. Kate McKinnon does a good job with what she has to work with as does Leslie Jones even though she is put into such a stereotypical character. I look forward to seeing these two in much better films. The writing in this film is just awful and in large the most atrocious part of this movie. The male characters are horrible and other than Chris Hemsworth are completely forgettable. The cameos by the original cast are absolutely terrible and insulting. I did still enjoy Annie Potts but her cameo could have been much better to. There is just so much in this movie that makes no sense. In the first film since the Ghostbusters were new to this they basically destroyed the hotel with their proton packs just trying to catch Slimer but in this film they are all great shots somehow. The CGI overall was not very good and this movie seemed like it would have been better as a cartoon or a movie for kids. In the end Ghostbusters 2016 is just a bad movie and a cash grab that should have never happened like this. The blame falls on Sony, Amy Pascal, and Paul Feig for how this whole thing turned out. They should be ashamed of themselves and never allowed to touch something like this again. The worst part to me is that I think we could have gotten a good new Ghostbusters film but that would have required getting the right director and choosing the cast because they are right for these parts. Having women Ghostbusters is great but when you start out by making the qualifications for the part to simply be female and that's all that matters then you will never find a great cast capable of giving you that Ghostbusters magic. I wish Sony would have taken the time to do this right and make a great movie instead of worrying about politics and catering to the vocal minority. One last thing that needs to be mentioned is that Sony deleted the comments of a large number of women that were critical of this film to frame it as just men being sexist. Sorry Sony but if you respect women then you don't erase and silence the voices of those that don't agree with you. 